MAUI BH+BWA+Identity article (#34944)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/blazor/hybrid/security/maui-blazor-web-identity.md

---

> title: .NET MAUI Blazor Hybrid with a Blazor Web App and ASP.NET Core Identity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: .NET MAUI Blazor Hybrid and Web App with ASP.NET Core Identity
```

Reviewer: Suggest we make this title follow the solution template naming.

author: guardrex

> description: Learn about the .NET MAUI Blazor Hybrid with a Blazor Web App that manages authentication with ASP.NET Core Identity sample app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to build a .NET MAUI Blazor Hybrid app with a Blazor Web App that manages authentication with ASP.NET Core Identity.
```

monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-9.0'
ms.author: riande
ms.custom: mvc
ms.date: 03/12/2025
uid: blazor/hybrid/security/maui-blazor-web-identity
---

> # .NET MAUI Blazor Hybrid with a Blazor Web App and ASP.NET Core Identity

Author: ```suggestion
# .NET MAUI Blazor Hybrid and Web App with ASP.NET Core Identity
```

<!-- UPDATE 10.0 - Uncomment at 10.0

[!INCLUDE[](~/includes/not-latest-version.md)]

-->

> The .NET MAUI Blazor Hybrid with a Blazor Web App and ASP.NET Core Identity sample app demonstrates how to share a common UI and with ASP.NET Core Identity local accounts. Although ASP.NET Core Identity is used, you can use this pattern for any authentication provider from a MAUI Blazor Hybrid client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This sample app demonstrates how to build a .NET MAUI Blazor Hybrid app with a Blazor web app that uses ASP.NET Core Identity. It shows how to share common UI and authenticate with ASP.NET Core Identity local accounts. Although ASP.NET Core Identity is used, you can use this pattern for any authentication provider from a MAUI Blazor Hybrid client.
```

Author: @BethMassi ... This one needs a closer look because that type of a Blazor app is a proper noun. Can it be ...

```diff
- Blazor web app
+ Blazor Web App
```

... to match all of the references to BWAs across the docs?

Author: *BTW* ... I updated the sample repo's README with the changes that we just made here on ...

https://github.com/dotnet/blazor-samples/pull/487

Reviewer: Sure.

In `MauiBlazorWeb.Web/Program.cs`:

```csharp
builder.Services.AddIdentityApiEndpoints<ApplicationUser>(...)
    .AddEntityFrameworkStores<ApplicationDbContext>();

...

app.MapGroup("/identity").MapIdentityApi<ApplicationUser>();

...

app.MapAdditionalIdentityEndpoints();
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> ASP.NET Core Identity pages and the implementation of the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Identity.SignInManager%601> framework class to manage logins and users is generated automatically when you create a a project from the Blazor Web App project template with **Individual Accounts**.
>
> This article focuses on using the provided sample app; but when creating a new project from the Blazor Web App template, you must remove the generated call to <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Identity.IdentityCookieAuthenticationBuilderExtensions.AddIdentityCookies%2A> on <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.AuthenticationServiceCollectionExtensions.AddAuthentication%2A>. The call isn't necessary when implementing API such as `MapAdditionalIdentityEndpoints` in the sample app and results in an error if left in the app.

### Log in from the MAUI client

> The `Login` component (`/login` endpoint) is where the user logs in. The component injects the `MauiAuthenticationStateProvider` (`MauiBlazorWeb/Services/MauiAuthenticationStateProvider.cs`) and uses the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Authorization.AuthenticationStateProvider> to authenticate the user and redirect them to the homepage if successful. When the state changes, the [`AuthorizeView` component](xref:blazor/security/index#authorizeview-component) shows the appropriate links based on the user's authentication status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Login` component (`/identity/login` endpoint) is where the user logs in. The component injects the `MauiAuthenticationStateProvider` (`MauiBlazorWeb/Services/MauiAuthenticationStateProvider.cs`) and uses the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Authorization.AuthenticationStateProvider> to authenticate the user and redirect them to the homepage if successful. When the state changes, the [`AuthorizeView` component](xref:blazor/security/index#authorizeview-component) shows the appropriate links based on the user's authentication status.
```
